---
title: How To Get The Guts Of 370 Business Magazines In 30 Minutes - Boardroom Reports Sales Letter
source_url: https://swiped.co/file/boardroom-reports-eugene-schwartz/
type: sales_letter
date_scraped: 2026-03-26
notes: The ad that launched Boardroom Reports for Martin Edelson. Written by Schwartz in the early days of Boardroom. Reconstructed from Schwartz's own account in his Philips Publishing lecture.
---

NOW! READ 300 BUSINESS MAGAZINES IN 30 MINUTES!
(Also known as: How To Get The Heart of 370 Business Magazines in Just 30 Minutes a Month)

Copywriter: Eugene M. Schwartz
Client: Boardroom Reports (Martin Edelson)
Format: 4-page sales letter
Year: Approximately 1972
Offer: Subscription + free business guide, first issue free, then $29.95 for 23 more issues at 39% discount

---

SCHWARTZ'S ACCOUNT OF WRITING THIS AD:

"Marty Edelson is the owner of Boardroom, Inc., which is a business about the same size as yours: $100 million a year. He came to me with $3,500 in his pocket, and I told him I'd have to charge him $2,500 as a copy fee, which embarrassed the devil out of me but didn't bother him at all."

"And he said, 'Okay, what do we do?' And I said, 'Well, we can start it right now. I'm gonna sit and I'm going to listen and you're going to talk.'"

"He talked about four hours about this crazy concept of having a thing called Boardroom - a newsletter called Boardroom. And I just sat there like you're sitting there right now, taking notes. And when he said things I just took it down."

"And about 30 minutes into it he said one sentence. And I took it down, and then we finished. And I said, 'Well, thank you.' He said, 'When can you have the copy for me?' And I said 'about two weeks.'"

"He walked out. I went home. My wife takes a long time to wake up. While she did that, I wrote the ad. I put in the ad from stern to stern. I couldn't give it to him the same night because he would think it was worth nothing. So I then put it away for two weeks. And in two weeks, I sent it to him and he ran it."

"Now, my copy was 70% his conversation. The headline was, 'How To Get the Heart of 370 Business Magazines in Just 30 Minutes a Month.' It was his thing. It was his idea. It was his conception. It was his vision. All I did was write it out and give it to people."

---

RESULTS:

This ad helped sell 60,000 subscriptions at $36 a year. It launched what became one of the most successful direct response publishing companies of all time. Boardroom grew from Edelson's initial $3,500 to annual sales exceeding $100 million.

KEY LESSON: "You must be in contact with your market. You must listen. You must let the ideas come to you. If you don't let the ideas come to you, you're going to rely too much on your own creativity."
