---
title: Burn Disease Out of Your Body - Dr. Chang's Book of Internal Exercises (20-Year Control)
source_url: https://swiped.co/file/burn-disease-ad-by-eugene-schwartz/
type: sales_letter
date_scraped: 2026-03-26
notes: Eugene Schwartz's most famous direct mail piece. Originally mailed in 1979 for Instant Improvement, Inc. Ran as a control for 14+ years, sold over $50 million worth of books. Reconstructed from Schwartz's own descriptions in his Philips Publishing lecture.
---

BURN DISEASE OUT OF YOUR BODY
Dr. Chang's Book of Internal Exercises
Copywriter: Eugene M. Schwartz
First Mailed: 1979
Mailer: Instant Improvement, Inc.
Format: 9" x 12" outer envelope, sales letter

OUTER ENVELOPE:

FREE... INSTANT IMPROVEMENT

FREE HOW TO RUB YOUR STOMACH AWAY

"In just a few weeks, she had lost five inches in her waist, hips and thigh area."
MAIL ENCLOSED CARD FOR FREE COPY.

"I got a call from him...and he told me...that he had already lost...his best."

"THE SIMPLEST AND MOST NATURAL WAY TO LOSE WEIGHT IS BY THIS EFFORTLESS TWO-MINUTE EXERCISE."

"By such apparently simple means, the superfluous areas of the stomach and abdomen are literally rubbed away."

"By applying the ...faithfully, he regulated his bowel movement, lost 40 pounds, and was filled with new energy."

---

HEADLINE (Letter):

How Modern Chinese Medicine Helps Both Men and Women
BURN DISEASE OUT OF YOUR BODY
Using Nothing more than the palm of your hand!

---

BODY COPY (as described by Schwartz in his lecture):

"How to treat high blood pressure, bursitis and arthritis - and prevent them from degenerating further, or even reverse them - simply by massaging the outside of the legs in a downward way. This pose helps reduce water retention and excess weight.....cures and prevents hemorrhoids, and cures problems of the prostate, such as ...enlargement and cancer."

"Eventually throw your glasses away, and never need to see an eye doctor again, simply by rubbing around the eyes for a few minutes every day."

"If one has strong..., they never grow old..."

---

OPENING OF LETTER (as read by Schwartz):

"This may be the most startling news you've ever read. And we are going to let you prove its merits yourself without risking a single penny. It is that different. They're powerful, they're provocative and controversial."

"Let us explain. The Chinese do not believe in surgery or medicine for major illness. They prevent such illnesses instead with a series of mild, almost effortless internal exercises. What you have been relying on is no longer necessary. Surgery and medicine are expensive, dangerous, and painful. Also embarrassing. But the Chinese don't believe in it. They prevent. Instead of treat, prevent. With a series of mild, almost effortless internal exercises. It sounds like fun!"

"If you do not have an open mind, please stop reading here, for this letter's about to introduce you to a new, although it is 4,000 years old, a different type of self-healing. Born in China, over 40 centuries ago, it's called Taoist medicine. And we will let the foremost practitioner of it in the Western world, Dr. Stephen Chiang, gave you a brief and startling introduction to these effortless exercises."

---

BIOGRAPHY SECTION:

"Stephen Chiang, Ph.D., M.D. comes from a family which has practiced medicine for more than 400 years. Dr. Chiang's great-grandfather was personal physician to the Empress Chai Chi and the first ambassador to the United Kingdom. Dr. Chiang has a Ph.D. in philosophy, holds two law degrees and received his medical degree from China, from the Yung Chee University Medical School, where he was trained in both Western and Chinese medicine."

"Currently he is on the faculty, consulting and conducting classes in Chinese medicine in such universities as University of California, University of Oslo; the United States Health Service Hospital, San Francisco; the University of Oregon; college of San Mateo; Golden West College; center for Chinese Medicine and Continuing Education."

---

DEMONSTRATION SECTION (as read by Schwartz):

"Let us give you the simple internal exercise that energizes the heart. This exercise shows you immediately how incredibly simple, how incredibly easy, how incredibly comfortable these internal exercises are. When you receive Dr. Chiang's book to prove or disprove it at our risk turn immediately, without preliminary reading, to page 140."

"There you will be shown the exact way to hold your body while energizing your heart. No movement. We'll repeat. No movement. No movement is required. All you do instead is this: sit or stand in a comfortable position with your hands simply extended in front of your chest at the level of your shoulders. Make sure that the fingertips of each hand almost touch. But keep about a quarter of an inch between them. Keep your eyes focused on the top of your fingers. That is all there is to the entire exercise. Nothing else. No further effort. Not even the simplest movement of the body is required. Nothing more. Nothing more to do. Not a single strain in any part of your body. Your heartbeat doesn't rise a single beat. And yet, what happens is this: 'The exercise creates a flow of energy.'"

---

KEY CLAIMS FROM THE LETTER:

"Clicking the teeth, as shown to you on page 132, will help tighten the joints in the body and keep the teeth healthy."

"The muscles in the abdomen and body will tighten and become toned and strengthened. Excess water and flesh will be eliminated and the belly is shrinking. And you are doing all this with the palm of your hand."

---

SCHWARTZ'S COMMENTARY ON THIS AD:

"Burn Disease Out of Your Body Laying Flat on Your Back, Using Nothing More Than the Palm of Your Hand are not my words. They're the author's words. I wrote seven paragraphs of this letter. But I had the ability to let this man speak for himself. And he still speaks to millions of Americans."

"I wrote it as a special favor for the author because he had done a special favor for me - he gave me back the use of my right hand after I had my stroke. I paid $125 for the layout. It's as crude as can be. I never thought the thing would sell."

"I couldn't get anybody to run it, so I started my own business to run it."

"This ad has been running for 14 years now, selling the book, which sold for $6.95 when it first ran and sells for $33 now. It will sell more copies this year than it ever did before. And we paid the author well over a million dollars."

Results: Ran for 14+ years. Sold over $50 million worth of books. One of the longest-running direct mail controls in history.
