---
title: Tricks of the Trade So Powerful They Could Change Your Life - Rodale Envelope (15-Year Control)
source_url: Philips Publishing lecture transcript
type: sales_letter
date_scraped: 2026-03-26
notes: Schwartz's ugly envelope that sold $50 million worth of books for Rodale. Ran as a control for 15 years. Reconstructed from his lecture.
---

TRICKS OF THE TRADE SO POWERFUL THEY COULD CHANGE YOUR LIFE
Rodale Press Direct Mail Envelope
Copywriter: Eugene M. Schwartz
Control Duration: 15 years
Sales: $50 million (five-zero) million dollars worth of books

FRONT OF ENVELOPE:

"If a Disease Is as Crippling as This, Then You Certainly Have To Treat It With Drugs. Or Do You? Decide For Yourself From the Startling Facts Below."

[Followed by approximately 100 words of copy leading into the envelope contents]

BACK OF ENVELOPE:

"Is Premature Aging the Most Universal Unconquerable of All the Common Diseases Listed Inside? Not at all. For startling, up-to-the-minute evidence that it is not, see inside!"

ENVELOPE CONTENTS:

"tricks of the trade so powerful they could change your life"

[20 tricks of the trade listed on the envelope, with page references:]

"A form of ordinary water that, by itself, can relieve cold symptoms. Page 273."

"Simple, do-it-yourself ways to not only burglar-proof your door, but also have invincible windows. Page 159."

[Plus 18 more similar benefit bullets with page references]

---

SCHWARTZ'S COMMENTARY:

"Okay, this is a dirty envelope - 'ugly,' as Richard calls it. This is an ugly layout. I've been driving Rodale crazy for over 15 years giving them this kind of envelope."

"This sold 50 million (five-zero) million dollars worth of books. That's a lot of books to sell on a single folded piece of paper. Why? Because it reaches out and touches somebody, and they're willing to see and pay for these little miracles."

"I wrote this to see how much copy I could get for an envelope on a single piece of typewritten paper single spaced. Then I threw it down to the design department."

"This ran as a control for 15 years. When it finally faded out, they went into this, which is prettier. Because it's on coated stock, in color. And this says, 'Old-timer tricks do the impossible around your home.' So you've gotta learn that a headline doesn't sell. It has nothing to do with selling."

FORMAT NOTES:

Schwartz deliberately used "ugly" layouts because: "Beauty looks much the same. It has a very narrow definition. Ugliness is randomness, which means that it's spread out. So there are a hundred different ways to be ugly and only two or three ways to be beautiful. So, the ugly thing in a world of beauty stands out."

He compared this to Estee Lauder's sepia ad strategy: "Twenty years ago, when Revlon was just knocking them dead with this four-color printing...Estee herself said, 'Well, if we run four-color, we're gonna look like everybody else. How about sepia?' And she got a series of sepia ads that were stunningly beautiful but completely different."
