---
title: Sneaky Little Arthritis Tricks - Rodale Press Direct Mail Envelope
source_url: Philips Publishing lecture transcript
type: sales_letter
date_scraped: 2026-03-26
notes: Reconstructed from Schwartz's detailed description in his Philips Publishing lecture. This was a direct mail envelope/package for a Rodale book about arthritis.
---

SNEAKY LITTLE ARTHRITIS TRICKS
Rodale Press Direct Mail Package
Copywriter: Eugene M. Schwartz

ENVELOPE HEADLINE:

Sneaky Little Arthritis Tricks.
Natural Foods and Do-It-Yourself Secrets That Pain-Proofed Over 100 Men and Women Like You.

TESTIMONIALS ON ENVELOPE (from 776 people, 7 selected):

"I enjoyed a total remission of my arthritis."
"I have not had sciatica since 1971."
"All symptoms disappeared and have not returned."

---

SCHWARTZ'S COMMENTARY ON THIS AD:

"There was a book that Rodale had a lot of trouble with. And they kind of figured that maybe they shouldn't have published it. It was a book on arthritis. And Rodale is extremely good - the best in the country, I think, at doctor remedies, hidden doctor remedies. And this book went way off from that because it wasn't written by doctors."

"This was a book about people who cured their arthritis by themselves that the doctors didn't really agree with. 766 different people who had different cures which they found by themselves."

"I figured that these people were sneaking around doctors. And they felt guilty about doing it. Nobody said this, incidentally. It isn't in the book. And the people who went to the doctors or the market for this were still in pain."

"So I thought the only way we could do this was 'sneaky little' - both words you don't usually use in advertisements like this."

STRUCTURE ANALYSIS (from Schwartz):

1. INTRIGUE: "Sneaky Little Arthritis Tricks" -- grabs attention with unexpected language
2. MECHANISM: "Natural Foods and Do-It-Yourself Secrets" -- explains what they are
3. PROOF: "That Pain-Proofed Over 100 Men and Women Like You" -- proves it works
4. EMOTION: Exceptional pictures -- beautiful woman, man with child kissing him

"Notice how it's step-by-step. You grab their attention; you send them into the mechanism. That is the foods and secrets. You send them into the first reward: pain-proof. Then we have these pictures and all these testimonials."

"So you have great promise, intrigue. You have a mechanism - a new mechanism that delivers that promise. You have proof that that promise has been delivered to people like you. And you have deep emotion. That's what you need. All of them combined, get the prospect to read."
