---
title: Eugene Schwartz's 5 Stages of Market Awareness and 5 Levels of Market Sophistication from Breakthrough Advertising
source_url: https://b-plannow.com/en/the-schwartz-pyramid-guide-to-the-5-levels-of-customer-awareness/
type: article
date_scraped: 2026-03-26
notes: Compiled from multiple sources analyzing Schwartz's core frameworks from Breakthrough Advertising (1966).
---

Eugene Schwartz's 5 Stages of Market Awareness
and 5 Levels of Market Sophistication
from Breakthrough Advertising (1966)

PART 1: THE FIVE STAGES OF AWARENESS

Eugene Schwartz developed the 5 Stages of Awareness marketing framework in his 1966 book Breakthrough Advertising. According to Schwartz, consumers' ability to absorb advertising messages varies depending on their degree of knowledge (or awareness) of the product or service and of their needs, problems, and desires.

The central insight: You must match your message to the prospect's current stage of awareness. The same product requires completely different copy depending on how aware the prospect already is.

Stage 1: UNAWARE

The prospect doesn't know they have a problem. They aren't aware there is a need or desire that could be fulfilled. This is the largest segment of the awareness spectrum, but the most challenging to market to.

Schwartz's approach: Use evocative images, stories, and emotional identification. Avoid technicalities and overly specific information about product features. The goal is to make the prospect recognize a problem or desire they didn't know they had.

Copy strategy: Lead with a story or an emotional identification. "If a disease is as crippling as this, then you certainly have to treat it with drugs. Or do you?"

Stage 2: PROBLEM AWARE

These consumers (approximately 20% of the total) know they have a problem but have no idea how to solve it. They feel the pain but don't know solutions exist.

Schwartz's approach: Use empathetic language. Acknowledge the problem. Agitate it. Show you understand their frustration. Then hint at a solution, creating curiosity.

Copy strategy: Lead with the problem. "Are The Foods You Are Eating Today STARVING YOUR BRAIN?" The prospect nods and reads on.

Stage 3: SOLUTION AWARE

These consumers (approximately 10%) know solutions exist but haven't selected one. They know there are products or methods that could help them, but they haven't found the right one yet.

Schwartz's approach: Use testimonials, reviews, and case studies to demonstrate that YOUR solution is better than others. Differentiate your mechanism from competing mechanisms.

Copy strategy: Lead with your unique mechanism. "Sneaky Little Arthritis Tricks. Natural Foods and Do-It-Yourself Secrets That Pain-Proofed Over 100 Men and Women Like You."

Stage 4: PRODUCT AWARE

These consumers (approximately 7%) know your product but haven't committed. They've heard of you but aren't convinced you're the right choice.

Schwartz's approach: Focus your advertising on proving your claims. Use proof, demonstration, and social proof. Address objections directly.

Copy strategy: Lead with proof and overcome the last objection. "This ad has been running for 14 years now, selling the book, which sold for $6.95 when it first ran and sells for $33 now."

Stage 5: MOST AWARE

These consumers (approximately 3%) know your product and its advantages. They're profiled and ready to buy. They're just waiting for you to communicate an irresistible offer.

Schwartz's approach: Communicate your irresistible offer. Give precise information about price and purchase method. Make the offer deadline-driven and risk-free.

Copy strategy: Lead with the offer. "Don't Pay A Penny For This Book Till It Doubles Your Power to Learn!"


THE KEY INSIGHT: Headline Strategy by Awareness Level

Schwartz taught that the headline is determined by the prospect's awareness level:

- Most Aware: Name the product, give the price, state the offer.
- Product Aware: Name the product, then emphasize the overwhelming benefit.
- Solution Aware: Name the benefit in the headline, connect it to the product in the body.
- Problem Aware: Name the problem in the headline, crystallize it into a specific need.
- Unaware: Start with a story, an emotional identification, or a dramatic statement that has nothing to do with the product.

Schwartz: "The purpose of this headline: 'Burn Disease Out of Your Body' -- which is the first thing they see in those ten seconds -- is to get them to read the next paragraph. That's all it is. Nothing else. It sells nothing. It confirms nothing. It argues nothing."


PART 2: THE FIVE LEVELS OF MARKET SOPHISTICATION

Market sophistication is about how many products have gone before you. How much noise has been shouted into your marketplace. This determines what kind of claims you can make and what level of proof you need.

Level 1: BE FIRST
You're the first product in the market. Simply state what the product does. "How to lose weight." No proof needed. The claim itself is the headline.

Level 2: ENLARGE THE CLAIM
Competitors have entered. You need to outdo the competition by making a bigger, better claim. "Lose 20 pounds in 30 days!" You're escalating the promise.

Level 3: INTRODUCE THE MECHANISM
The market has heard every promise. They're skeptical. Now you must explain HOW your product works differently. "The fat-burning foods that destroy fat cells, not just shrink them." The mechanism becomes the differentiator.

Level 4: ENLARGE THE MECHANISM
Multiple products now claim mechanisms. You must present a more advanced, impressive, or unique mechanism. "The Swedish doctor's 6-day-a-week protocol that doesn't just shrink fat cells, but destroys them permanently."

Level 5: IDENTIFICATION
The market is saturated. Nothing new can be said about the product or its mechanism. Now you sell identification -- "people like you" stories, aspirational identity, and belonging. The prospect buys because of who they become, not what the product does.

Schwartz: "The greatest mistake marketers make is trying to create demand. You cannot create demand. You can only channel existing mass desire into your product."


KEY QUOTES FROM BREAKTHROUGH ADVERTISING

"Copy is not written. Copy is assembled. You do not write copy, you assemble it. You are working with a series of building blocks, you are putting the building blocks together, and then you are putting them in certain structures, you are building a little city of desire for your person to come and live in."

"No sentence can be effective if it contains only facts. It must also contain emotion, image, logic and promise."

"The person who is the best prepared and the most knowledgeable makes the most money."

"You do not create desire for your product. You take an existing demand in the market, and you channel it into your products."

"Choose the most powerful desire that can possibly be applied to your product, acknowledge that desire in your headline, and then show how product performances inevitably satisfy that desire."

"The headline is the bridge between the prospect and the product. The headline determines the success of the ad. If the headline is wrong, the body copy never gets read."

"Think of yourself as an atomic scientist. You find a tiny thing called the atom, which has got enormous, enormous, enormous stored-up, locked-in power, and you find that if you take two atoms and bind them together, you can release the power. That's what you're doing."
