---
title: How to Kill Writer's Block and Become a Master Copywriter in Only 3 Hours a Day
source_url: https://copyblogger.com/schwartz-copywriting-system/
type: article
date_scraped: 2026-03-26
notes: Copyblogger article about Eugene Schwartz's writing process and 33-minute technique.
---

How to Kill Writer's Block and Become a Master Copywriter in Only 3 Hours a Day
Source: Copyblogger

Eugene Schwartz's Writing System

Legendary copywriter Eugene Schwartz developed a remarkably simple productivity system: writing only 3 hours daily, 5 days weekly, yet produced 9 books (including the classic Breakthrough Advertising), numerous successful advertisements, and countless articles.

The 33-Minute Technique

Schwartz's primary tool was a small kitchen timer set to 33.33 minutes. His rules were strict:

Allowed during each session:
- Drinking coffee
- Staring out windows or at walls
- Doing absolutely nothing

Forbidden:
- Leaving the chair
- Doing anything else

He would sit at his writing desk -- coffee on the left, pens on the right -- with research notes and skeleton outlines. The magic happened through enforced boredom: "He'd usually sit in that chair for a few minutes until he got bored, and then he'd slowly start typing."

The Foundation: Research & Craft

Before writing, Schwartz invested heavily in preparation. He would read and re-read product information obsessively, systematically documenting benefits. By project completion, "he'd know more about a product than the person who'd created it."

"Craft and research were the fuel, but boredom was the key."

Results

Six daily 33-minute sessions across five days generated substantial professional success and financial security in Manhattan during the 1950s-60s, establishing Schwartz as one of history's most effective copywriters.

Key Schwartz Quotes on the Process:

"When I press the start button, I can do anything I want. All willpower is dissolved. I can do anything I want as long as it relates to the piece of copy in front of me. I can ignore it. I don't have to touch it. I don't have to look at it. But I can't get up from the desk, and I can't do anything except ignore or relate to the piece of copy."

"Copy is not written. Copy is assembled."

"I am not trying to write a wonderful ad. I am not trying to earn an extra million dollars. I am not trying to do anything. I have no goal whatsoever as to what that particular piece of copy is going to do for me."

"After 33.33 minutes happen, this thing goes crazy and rings all over the place. You stop. You push the stop button. You don't do anything from that moment on. If you are in the middle of a sentence you really leave that sentence go. If you lose it, you lose it. That's too bad."

"You now have five minutes of compulsory leisure. You are not to create any more! You are not to work anymore."
